README.MD, before:

# NASA Near Earth Object Data Fetcher

This Python script interacts with NASA's Near Earth Object (NEO) API to retrieve information about asteroids that come close to Earth within a specified date range. It processes the data and saves it into an Excel file. The code utilizes asynchronous programming to enhance performance during API calls and data processing.

## Key Components of the Code

1. **Imports**: The script imports necessary libraries:
   - `requests`: For making HTTP requests.
   - `pandas`: For data manipulation and Excel file handling.
   - `os` and `dotenv`: For environment variable management.
   - `asyncio`: For asynchronous programming.

2. **Functions**:
   - `initial_filter(url)`: Fetches data from the NEO API, filters out unnecessary fields, and organizes the relevant information into a dictionary.
   - `toDataFrame(dictionaries, path)`: Converts the filtered dictionary into an Excel file using Pandas.
   - `entryCollect()`: Collects user input for file path and name.
   - `pathCorrecting(init_path, name)`: Corrects the file path format for saving the Excel file.
   - `main()`: Orchestrates the overall workflow, including loading environment variables, collecting user input, making API calls, and saving data.

## Step-by-Step Tutorial

### Step 1: Setup Your Environment

1. **Install Required Libraries**:
   Make sure you have the necessary libraries installed. You can do this via pip:

   ```bash
   pip install -r "requirements.txt"

2. **Create a .env File:**:
    In your project directory, create a .env file to store your NASA API key:
    
    ```bash
    API-KEY=your_nasa_api_key_here

### Step 2: Understand the Code

   - `API Interaction`: The script constructs a URL to fetch asteroid data based on user-defined start and end dates.  
   - `Data Filtering`: The function initial_filter() processes the JSON response from the API, ignoring certain keys (links, nasa_jpl_url, sentry_data) while focusing on others like estimated_diameter and close_approach_data.
   - `Excel File Creation`:The filtered data is saved into an Excel file using the toDataFrame() function, which creates separate sheets for each date.
        
### Step 3: Run the Script
1. **Execute the Script**:
    Run the script in your terminal or preferred IDE:
    ```bash
    python your_script_name.py

2. **Input Prompts**:
    Follow the prompts to enter:
   -`The start date (format: YYYY-MM-DD)`.
   -`The end date (format: YYYY-MM-DD)`.
   -`The desired file path for saving the Excel file`.
   -`The name of the Excel file`.

### Step 4: Check Your Output
   After execution, navigate to the specified directory to find your generated Excel file containing asteroid data organized by date.

## Conclusion
   This script provides a practical way to access and analyze asteroid data from NASA's API. By leveraging asynchronous programming and Pandas for data handling, it efficiently processes potentially large datasets while maintaining clarity and organization in output files. Feel free to modify or extend this code for additional functionalities or analyses!

Commit message:

fix: now includes venv tutorial

README.MD, after:

# NASA Near Earth Object Data Fetcher

This Python script interacts with NASA's Near Earth Object (NEO) API to retrieve information about asteroids that come close to Earth within a specified date range. It processes the data and saves it into an Excel file. The code utilizes asynchronous programming to enhance performance during API calls and data processing.

## Key Components of the Code

1. **Imports**: The script imports necessary libraries:
   - `requests`: For making HTTP requests.
   - `pandas`: For data manipulation and Excel file handling.
   - `os` and `dotenv`: For environment variable management.
   - `asyncio`: For asynchronous programming.

2. **Functions**:
   - `initial_filter(url)`: Fetches data from the NEO API, filters out unnecessary fields, and organizes the relevant information into a dictionary.
   - `toDataFrame(dictionaries, path)`: Converts the filtered dictionary into an Excel file using Pandas.
   - `entryCollect()`: Collects user input for file path and name.
   - `pathCorrecting(init_path, name)`: Corrects the file path format for saving the Excel file.
   - `main()`: Orchestrates the overall workflow, including loading environment variables, collecting user input, making API calls, and saving data.

## Step-by-Step Tutorial

### Step 1: Setup Your Environment

#### Setting Up a Python Virtual Environment (venv)

1. **Navigate to Your Project Directory**:
   Before creating a virtual environment, ensure you are in the correct project directory where you want to set it up. Use the following command to navigate to your project folder:

   ```bash
   cd path/to/your/project-directory

2. **Create the Virtual Environment**:
   To create a virtual environment named venv, run the following command:

   ```bash
   python -m venv ven 

   This command will create a new folder named venv in your project directory, which contains the isolated Python environment.

3. **Activate the Virtual Environment**:
   Now that the virtual environment is created, you need to activate it. Run the following command:

   ```bash
   venv\Scripts\activate

   Once activated, your command prompt will change to indicate that you are now working within the venv environment. You should see (venv) at the beginning of your command line.

4. **Install Required Libraries**:
   Make sure you have the necessary libraries installed. You can do this via pip:

   ```bash
   pip install -r "requirements.txt"

5. **Create a .env File:**:
    In your project directory, create a .env file to store your NASA API key:
    
    ```bash
    API-KEY=your_nasa_api_key_here

### Step 2: Understand the Code

   - `API Interaction`: The script constructs a URL to fetch asteroid data based on user-defined start and end dates.  
   - `Data Filtering`: The function initial_filter() processes the JSON response from the API, ignoring certain keys (links, nasa_jpl_url, sentry_data) while focusing on others like estimated_diameter and close_approach_data.
   - `Excel File Creation`:The filtered data is saved into an Excel file using the toDataFrame() function, which creates separate sheets for each date.
        
### Step 3: Run the Script
1. **Execute the Script**:
    Run the script in your terminal or preferred IDE:
    ```bash
    python API_filter_to_excel.py

2. **Input Prompts**:
    Follow the prompts to enter:
   -`The start date (format: YYYY-MM-DD)`.
   -`The end date (format: YYYY-MM-DD)`.
   -`The desired file path for saving the Excel file`.
   -`The name of the Excel file`.

### Step 4: Check Your Output
   After execution, navigate to the specified directory to find your generated Excel file containing asteroid data organized by date.

## Conclusion
   This script provides a practical way to access and analyze asteroid data from NASA's API. By leveraging asynchronous programming and Pandas for data handling, it efficiently processes potentially large datasets while maintaining clarity and organization in output files. Feel free to modify or extend this code for additional functionalities or analyses!
